#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Module 1 Exercise
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recall that the skeleton data was collected in order to assess the accuracy
 of methods used by anthropologists to estimate age at death.
 The Visualizing Skeleton Data RShiny app lets us quickly inspect the data
 by producing a number of helpful visualizations.
 In this exercise we will do the first stages of an exploratory analysis
 of this data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Real world data often comes with mistakes or mislabellings.
 The skeleton data includes BMI as both a quantitative variable and as a
 categorical variable.
 Try several different ways of plotting the quantitative BMIquant blocked
 by the subgroup BMIcat.
 Do you notice anything unusual?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
If our data was overwhelmingly from males or overwhelmingly from obese people
 we might miss seeing effects due to these factors.
 Try plotting the categorical variables in two different ways.
 Does it seem like any group is strongly overrepresented or underrepresented?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Pie charts are popular amongst elementary school students but not amongst
 statisticians.
 Try producing pie charts of Sex and BMIcat and eyeballing the relative
 frequencies of each category visually.
 The true relative frequencies are shown in the Data Summary under the chart.
 Were your estimates accurate?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Data that comes with several covariates might lead us to conflate the source
 of different effects.
 For example, if almost all of the obese people in the dataset were very
 old then we might misattribute to age inaccurate predictions due to obesity.
 Use the plots to explore whether this phenomena is present in our data
 set.
 Are there comparisons you would like to make that are not possible with
 the plotting done in the app?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
What is the average BMI for females in this data set? What is the average
 BMI for males?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For each of the estimation strategies (Di Gangi et al.
 and Suchey-Brooks) decide whether the method tends to overestimate or underesti
mate age of death.
 The errors in estimation are given as DGerror and SBerror respectively.
 What plots are most useful for assessing this? If you were an anthropologist
 how might you make use of this information?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For each of the estimation strategies, does body mass or sex substantially
 impact the accuracy of the estimate? How about the variability of the estimate?
 What kind of plots are useful for assessing this?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
In practical terms an anthropologist would just like to know which of these
 methods they should use.
 What further exploratory analysis would you like to do before making a
 preliminary recommendation? Are there any additional visualizations or
 plots that you think should be produced?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
